		README for the Apsend and Apstat Commands

				APSEND

Apsend is a command that send device-independent troff output from the
user's 'home' UNIX system to the dedicated UNIX driving the APS-5
phototypesetter.

Take the following steps to prepare apsend for your system.

1) Compile the file apsend.mkhd.c (which uses the file apsend.h).

2) Move the a.out file to apsend.mkhd.

3) Check the following shell variables in the apsend command and change if
necessary: NODE, MKHEAD, FNTABLES, NETWORK.

	NODE - use '`uname -n`' or the actual system nodename

	MKHEAD - use 'apsend.mkhd' (if apsend and apsend.mkhd will reside in
          the same directory); otherwise use full pathname of apsend.mkhd

	FNTABLES - use '/usr/lib/font' or the actual pathname of the troff font
	  directory

	NETWORK - use 'uucp1' or 'uucp2' or 'usend' or 'nusend' as explained
	  below:

		use 'uucp1' for those systems selecting uucp network - AND uucp
		BY DEFAULT copies source files to the spool directory. (Note:
		'uucp -C' is usually illegal on these systems.)

		use 'uucp2' for those systems selecting uucp network - AND uucp
		does NOT by default copy source files to the spool directory
		(invokes '-C' option of uucp)

		use 'usend' for those systems selecting usend network;
		must also have the entry 'mhuxm mhuxv  /usr/asp/unpackm'
		in /usr/asp/udest

		use 'nusend' for those systems selecting nusend network (must
		have NSC link to MHCC dedicated UNIX)

4) Be sure to leave a blank line as the first line of the apsend shell script.

The apsend command resides in /usr/lbin on the Murray Hill Computer
Center UNIX systems.

The man page for apsend is included as file apsend.1.

				APSTAT

The apstat command sends a request for the current status of apsend jobs
(both APS-5 and imagen) to the dedicated UNIX driving both devices.  The
UNIX acknowledges the status requests via UNIX mail, prepending a brief
bulletin indicating unusual turnaround conditions, if such exist. The reply
is sent to the <system>!<login> of the apstat submitter.

Take the following steps to prepare apstat for your system.

1) Compile the file apstat.mkhd.c.

2) Move the a.out file to apstat.mkhd.

3) Check the following shell variables in the apstat command and change if
necessary: NODE, MKHEAD, REMOTEX, NETWORK.
	NODE - use '`uname -n`' or the actual system nodename
	MKHEAD - use 'apstat.mkhd' (if apstat and apstat.mkhd will reside in
	  the same directory); otherwise use full pathname of apstat.mkhd
	REMOTEX - set value to '1' to request status via remote execution
	  of aps.status command; set value to '0' to request status without
	  remote execution of aps.status command
	NETWORK - use 'uucp1' or 'uucp2' or 'usend' or 'nusend' as explained
	  above for the apsend command

4) Be sure to leave a blank line as the first line of the apstat shell script.

The apstat command resides in /usr/lbin on the Murray Hill Computer Center
UNIX systems.

The man page for apstat is included as file apstat.1.

Please contact Virginia Turner, MH-2F-113, x4661, mhuxm!vbt if you have
trouble installing apsend or apstat on your system or if the commands do not
appear to work properly thereafter.
