.P
The following list gives the program affected and a
description of the change.
.VL 15 0
.LI all
The spool directory is now a tree with one directory for
each active or recently accessed remote.
The inactive directories are removed periodically.
.LI all
The error messages were cleaned up;
ASSERT messages are standardized and they will now be put
into an error log (/usr/spool/uucp/.Admin/errors).
Other rare error messages will also appear in the file.
The most common message is a PKXSTART message;
it can be discounted, since it just means that the other
side hung up in the middle of a conversation.
.LI all
All programs use \fIgetopt()\fR to read arguments.
.LI uucp
\-e option was removed;
forwarding is specified in the same manner as with mail.
.LI uucp
Uucp is more robust;
Files that the user can read, but are unreadable by others can now be
sent;
uucp will assume \-C option for these files.
.LI uucico
The locking mechanism was redone;
non-active lock files will be automatically deleted when a
program needs access to the facility.
.LI uucico
The retry time algorithm was changed;
it now uses an exponential backoff instead of a constant time.
In addition, the format and meaning of the retry time in the
Systems (old name was L.sys) file changed;
a ';' is used in place of the previously used ','.
.LI uucico
The conn routine in uucico was made much more flexible;
it can now handle many more device types:
develcon, ventel, micom
switches and dialers.
.LI uucico
It can now talk over DATAKIT using either
normal uucp protocol, or the DATAKIT protocol,
which is much faster.
(Some sites may not be able to use the DATAKIT protocol
with uucp.)
.LI uucico
Uucico can now be compiled so that it will not converse
with any site that is not in the local Systems file.
(This is set in the parms.h file before compiling the uucp
programs.)
A shell called remote.unknown is provided that puts the name
of the remote site into a file.
The local administrator can change it to meet local needs.
.LI uucico
Uucico no longer will search for a system to call;
rather, a new program ``uusched'' provides that function.
.LI uuxqt
One can now specify the commands available to a remote system
by system name.
.LI "uuxqt, uux"
There is a more flexible and more informative error return mechanism;
new options allow the return of standard input when commands fail.
In addition, one can control error return notification for always,
only when non-zero, or never.
When notification is returned for error, stderr is returned with
the error message.
.LI uustat
Uustat was completely rewritten;
some of the old features are gone and some new features are
added.
.LI uulog
The uulog program was removed and replaced by a shell;
there are new features and old features were removed.
.LI uucheck
A new program was written to check the existence of all files
required for execution of uucp programs.
It is automatically run during installation;
if failure occurs, the installation is discontinued.
In addition, this program can be invoked by the administrator
to produce an English interpretation of the Permissions file.
.LI uusub
Uusub was deleted.
.LI uucleanup
Uuclean was completely rewritten and renamed uucleanup.
Using heuristics and knowledge of the structure and contents
of various uucp generated files, \fIuucleanup\fRt tries to return
undeliverable mail messages, execute rnews on ophan netnews data
files, and gives specific date and file name information
to the requester for
requests that can not be executed due to failure to contact the
remote in a given number of days.
.LI uuxqt
The number of uuxqt program running at one time is now
controlled by a file in /usr/lib/uucp (Maxuuxqts).
.LI uugetty
A new program in included;
it is a getty that can be used on ports that have dialers
801/212-103 or intelligent modems so that the port can be used
for both input (getty) or output (uucico).
.LI LOGFILE
The file is no longer used;
there is now a separate log file for each system and command.
The uulog program knows about them as do the demons that
take care of cleanup.
Note also that the log messages have changed;
they more clearly indicate what system and what files are being
transmitted.
.LI Systems
The format of the direct line connections changed;
the first field that had a tty number is now replaced by
the word Direct.
.LI Devices
New fields were added to each line and some new
type device lines are available.
See documentation on the Systems, Devices files.
.LI Permissions
The USERFILE, used for security, was deleted;
it was replaced by the Permissions file,
which is easier to read, understand, and has more
flexibility.
A new document describes this feature.
One important aspect is that permissions must be overtly granted,
the default is for a high level of security.
.LE
