.ul
.ce
BITE RELEASE PACKAGE
.sp
The BITE release tape is divided into four  major  directories,
doc,include,lib  and  src.  Doc  of course contains all currently
available documentation. Include contains all of the header  (.h)
files necessary to compile BITE, the special LSX floating point
compiler, the file system interface (which  BITEX and BITEM  require)  and
system  routines  required  under  the file system interface. Lib
contains archive files  containing  all  of  the  object  modules
necessary  to link a working version of BITE and BITEX. Where
BITE is intended to run on a PDP11/70 or equivalent while BITEX
and BITEM
are  intended  to  run  on an LSI-11/03.  
BITEX is for 11/03's with the IBV11-A general purpose instrument bus
and associated instruments. To make room for the instrument dirvers,
some of the math routines i.e. sin,cos,atn,tan log had to be 
excluded from BITEX.
BITEM on the other hand excludes the bus and instrument routines and
includes a full math package.
These exclusions and inclusions are controlled by two manifest constants,
namely LSX and TEST. These constants are not mutually exclusive, that is
LSX may be defined without TEST but TEST may not be defined without LSX.
.sp
Src contains five directories,
each of which contains source code for all of  the  files
contained  in  the  Lib archives. In addition to source code each
directory under "src" contains one or more shell scripts intended
to  build  a  new  archive or recompile individual modules within
that particular source directory and link the new module with the
existing  ones  in  the archives. In general the scripts to build
new archives are called "build.sh" and the ones to recompile  individual
modules  are  called  "compile.sh".  In  the "src/bite"
directory there are separate "build" and  "compile"  scripts  for
BITE,
BITEX and
BITEM.
.sp
BITE was developed by R. B. Drake and J.
P. Hawkins of the Power Systems  laboratory  at  Whippany,  as  a
"BASIC" like language for the purpose of providing an easy to use
and easy to tailor language for non-programmer engineers  to  use
in  developing test programs on automated test sets.  Much of the
software in the file system  interface  and  the  floating  point
pre-compiler  was obtained from Unix Support Group in Murray Hill
and Ron Hardin of Columbus Labs. respectively. However,  we  have
modified this software in many places to make it more compact and
to fit our particular needs. Very little of  it  is  in  "as  received"
condition.   Since, we are not primarily a software support
group, we may not be able to respond to requests to fix bugs
or  modify  this code unless in our opinion such changes would be
of benefit to our own project.  However, we  are  very  happy  to
share  what  we have and are most happy that our efforts may find
applications other than the ones for which they  were  originally
intended.
.sp

	The tape supplied is created by the UNIX "cpio" command.
To load the tape, create a directory where it is desired to
place the software, mount the tape and issue:

	cpio -id < /dev/mt0

	where 0 is mag tape unit zero.
			R. B. Drake and J. P. Hawkins
