A memo?  Gods, no.  Except for use of the mouse, the Tektronix 4014
manual serves as documentation for the program.  Here's a brief rundown:

1.  Getting it started.
	Open a layer in mpx (layers).  Make it full-width and about
three-fifths of the height for maximal Tektronix compatibility. If
/usr/jerq/bin (or the local equivalent) is not in your $PATH, put it
there.  Type tek4014 (or whatever), and, if using a 1200 baud line,
go out and do your Christmas shopping.  When you return, the layer
will be a functioning tektronix emulator.

2.  The button 2 menu.
	The menu on button 2 shows you the state in which the switches
on the 4014 are NOT; i.e., it shows you what you will get if you push
that menu item.  This applies to the "real" 4014 switches:
	line/local, ascii/apl, 
and to the fake ones:
	dither/random, smear/focus, flash/no flash.
These last two relate to the way that point-plotted images are handled:
either by a dithering process to get grey levels, or by a coin-flip method;
and either by considering 100% to be a 2x2 cell of pixels, or a 1x1.  Since
a jerq doesn't have grey levels, or the resolution of a real 4014, some
fiddling with these may be necessary to produce the best mimicry of a
4014.  They start in dither/smear, which produces the best results on
all of the examples I've tried.
The flash/no flash switch, controls whether characters, points, and lines
are highlighted briefly when drawn.

Menu items page, reset, shift and exit:
	page and reset transmit the functions of the 4014 keyboard
key reset/page (reset = shift page).  page clears the screen; reset
homes the cursor, and sets alpha mode in the largest font.  You can
also page the screen by typing the no scroll key.

	exit exits the emulator, first demanding button 3 confirmation.

	When the screen has dimmed, a menu item shift appears.  Since the
shift keys on the jerq keyboard do not transmit, use this to wake the
screen up, if you just want to see what's underneath.

3.  GIN mode (using the crosshairs)
	When in GIN mode, a crosshair cursor will appear on the screen.
Point the mouse, and press button 1 to get control of the crosshairs.

4.  Layer tomfoolery.
	Since a 4014 is an OR mode device, the appearance of the stipple
pattern can ruin the images on the screen.  Thus, rather than using
stippling to show non-currency, tek4014 flips itself into a black on
white image when it is not current.  This is also desirable for use
with screen dumping programs.  Reshaping a 4014 layer causes a page
function: screen clear, alpha mode, homed cursor.

5.  Other incompatibilities.
	As far as I know, there are none.  In every regard, your tek4014
layer should appear to all programs to be a Tektronix 4014, with extended
graphics option.  If not, tell me, and I will fix it, if possible.

Mark (research|rabbit|ikeya ! msm) Manasse

Command line switches:

To further emulate a 4014, the strappable terminal options are now
available as command line switches at start-up time.

Strap		Switch	Effect
LFeffect	-l	Default: LF causes LF only;
			-l: LF causes LF and CR.

CReffect	-c	Default: CR causes CR only;
			-c: CR causes CR and LF.

NOTE: only one of -l and -c may be selected.

DELimpliesLOY	-d	Default: DEL is legal LOY.
			-d: ESC ? also recognized as DEL.

GINcount	-e,-g	Default: GIN mode sends four position characters,
				 and a CR.
			-e: Send a CR and an EOT.
			-g: Send only the GIN characters; no CR, no EOT.

NOTE: only one of -e and -g may be selected.

NOTE: the following is not a true 4014 strap, but is included
      to make the emulator more usable.

DIMallowed	-u	Default: ALLOWED.  The screen will dim after 90 seconds
			idle in ALPHA mode.  Recover either by typing a character,
			or by selecting 'shift' on the button 2 menu.
			-u: The screen never dims.  (How dull)

The default settings correspond to the strap options in 1127; in particular,
the cda-draw software requires the default GIN strap.  Berkeley users will
probably want to use -l, unless their system has been Ritchie'd.

Mark

