June 10, 1992:
	made invis work better with everything; if the object
	is filled, invis causes the edge not to be drawn.
	noedge is a synonym, for compatibility with picasso.

	changed default grayscale value to 0.7.

10/6/91:
	fiddled eprint to try to get rid of "not a typewriter".

Aug 8, 91:

added extra test in whatpos in misc.c to avoid copying
uninitialized o_val stuff;  only showed up on plan 9.
thanks to howard trickey.

May 8, 1991:

removed some old code that was meant to provide dashed splines
but had no postscript support.  better done another way.
not yet installed.

Apr 29, 1991:

Made "fill invis" turn off the boundary if box, circle, ellipse
but leave the filled part visible.  also permitted filled arcs,
multi-element lines, and splines.  the properties of the latter
are not completely determined.

for compatibility with picasso, really ought to be "noedge".

July 19, 1990:

Converted to ANSI C.  Alea iacta est.

May 5, 1990:

Fixed shrinking of oversize pictures so that it maintains the proper
aspect ratio but otherwise fits the box defined by maxpswid and ht.
(used to be 7x7.)  Should these be done independently instead?

Apr, 1990:

Upgraded set of regression tests from Peter Nelson

Sep 89:

Fixed core dump when .PS < nonexistent

Apr 89:

No warning if undef something not defined.

Fixed bug that gave memory fault when a line had lots of segments.

Fixed bug that omitted variable or place name from "no such place"
messages.

Fixed bug that didn't assign size to X: right or X: x=0;
subsequent uses of the label got huge/undefined sizes.

Fixed bug that didn't return sensible dimension for things like
	B:0,0; print B.wid
and for blocks containing such things.

Fixed defective makefile (I think).

Feb 89:

Added ^ operator for exponentation.

Dec 88:

Modified storage management so large pictures are handled
more gracefully.

Mar 88:

Some special stuff to permit limited access to postscript
for gray scale.  Not much tested, not much used.

Mar 87:

Added variables maxpsht and maxpswid to override built-in
8.5x11 limits on maximum picture.  Use for landscape mode,
for example.

Jan 86:

Fixed .PS x y to specify x and y scaling.
Uses the more constraining, rather than changing
the aspect ratio.

May 85:

"solid" is now a valid (though uninteresting) attribute.

Mar 85:

Limited amount of point arithmetic:
	point +/- point
works

Dec, 1984:

reset varlist
	resets built-in variables in list to default values.
	empty list resets everything.

sprintf("format", exprlist)
	returns a text string suitable for use anywhere "..."
	can be used.

sh X anything X
	passes "anything" to a shell for execution after
	replacing any defined terms in it.

Nov, 1984:

line expr and move expr are treated as line/move by expr
in current direction.

The -D option has been rendered obsolete -- all output is
produced with \D commands.  The -T option is also 
meaningless -- the output is independent of typesetter.

A new variable "arrowhead" controls printing of arrowheads,
by defining the number of lines printed in a little fan.
Default is 2;  values around 7 give a filled-in head;
other values are basically worthless.  Arrowheads on arcs
are now tilted somewhat in an attempt to improve their
appearance.

"undef foo" removes the definition of foo.

July 1984:

The functions log, exp (both base 10), sqrt, sin, cos, atan2(,),
max, min (2 arguments only), int, and rand (which returns a
float random on [0,1)) are now available,  stolen directly
from grap.

Added copy, for and if from grap:
	copy "file"
	copy "file" thru X macro body X
	copy thru X macro X [until "str"]
	for var = expr to expr [by expr] do X anything X
	if expr then X anything [else X anything X]

In a copy, any .PS or .PE is discarded [sic], so copied files
can be nested without editing.  .PS <file still works
but its use is discouraged.

In an if, you can also test "string1" == "string2" or
"string1" != "string2"

The text primitive is now more systematic:
"..." ".." "." makes an invisible object with
properties much like a box.  Height and width
are settable:  explicit ht and wid modifiers
affect a specific instance;  variables textht
and textwid affect all subsequent occurrences.
"textht" is the height of one line, so the height
of n strings is n*textht.

Added code from Eric Grosse to correctly compute bounding
box for arcs.  Also defined corners for arcs as same as
corresponding circle, an idea due to Tom Cargill.

Limits on text strings, attributes and objects grow until
memory limit reached.

Permits E format on input numbers.

Output produced in inches, not units, so somewhat more
typesetter-independent.  The environment variable TYPESETTER
is examined.

Saves and restores fill state around .PS/.PE.

.PS wid ht
can be used to set width and height separately for picture;
default ht is to scale in same proportion as width (as before).
May give surprising results when both x and y values are given.
