MATERIALS

Manuals are included in two forms.
	formatted ASCII file:
		map.man
	input for troff -man:
		map.5, map.7, proj.3, proj.5, route.1

The source directory has two subdirectories: 
	libmap		source for all the projection subroutines
	mapdata		World Data Bank I, etc.

The source is written in ANSI C.  Check CFLAGS and CC in the
Makefile and make them reflect your system's conventions.

QUICK TEST

For a quick test, to see whether you can compile and compute, try this
test, which makes "map" and checks its output for a bit of Africa:

	make quicktest

PLOTTING FILTERS

Map produces output for a plotting filter (not included).
Unfortunately there is no Unix standard for plotting.
Here are ways to compile for various filters.

	make		For System V and SunOS filters plot(1)
			or tplot(1).

	make v10	For v10 research system plot(1), not
			compatible with System V.

	make ps		PostScript.  Maps are drawn in a 6.5-inch
			square centered 1 inch from the top of an
			8.5x11 page.  To change, edit the
			PostScript or plotPS.c.

	As map uses only simple plotting features, it is usually
	easy to interface to other plotting packages. See
	iplot.h (used with "make v10") for details.

When you have a plotting filter, you can test map in the current
directory as follows.  For sample arguments, see EXAMPLES on the
map(7) man page.

	MAPDIR=./mapdata MAPPROG=./map  map.sh arguments | filter

INSTALLATION

For real installation, examine the recipe for

	make install

It puts the map shell script in /usr/bin and everything else
in /usr/lib/map.  If you want to put things elsewhere, adjust
variables MAPDIR and MAPPROG in map.sh.  map.sh will become
the command "map".  After installation it will be run thus:

	map arguments | filter

POSSIBLE PROBLEMS

Options 
	Option -f oes not work because World Data Bank II is
	not in this distribution on account of its size (13Mb).

	-y files are like v10, not Sys V, plot files.
	The plot(5) man page from v10 is included for reference,
	although most of it is irrelevant for this application.

Library 
	At least one version of tplot(1) has been seen to garble
	the output.  In this case the trouble went away by
	compiling map with -l4014 instead of -lplot; see plot(3).

	Collisions with a nonstandard library function sincos()
	have been observed.  sincos will have to be renamed 
	in map.h and all .c files.

Man pages
	The man pages were produced with a -man macros slightly
	different from Sys V.  If you change font L to B throughout
	you will probably get a passable result.

REFERENCES

Most standard texts on cartography discuss the major projections
and their uses.  Some thorough works:
  
  J. P. Snyder, An Album of Map Projections, US Geological Survey
  Professional Paper 1453, USGPO Washington (1989)
  
  J. P. Snyder, Map Projections - A Working Manual, US Geological
  Survey Professional Paper 1395, USGPO Washington (1987)
  
  D. H. Maling, Coordinate Systems and Map Projections, George
  Philip and Son, London (1973)
  
  J. A. Steers, An Introduction to the Study of Map Projections,
  Univ. London Press (1970)

A short introduction, with 24 sample maps drawn by the "map"
program itself and the commands to draw them:

  M. D.	McIlroy, Projections: Mapmakers' Answers to the Riddle of
  Presenting a Round Earth on Flat Paper, AT&T Bell Labs Computing
  Science Tech. Report 140 (1987), order from Computing Science
  Reports, Room 2C579, AT&T Bell Labs Murray Hill, NJ 07974

  [In this report, option -s is used in an obsolete way.  It
  should always be replaced by -s2, with -s1 added to the
  preceding command.]

Doug McIlroy
201-582-6050
research!doug
doug@research.att.com
