makelinks full-path-name [other-path]
goes through all the files in the [other]
directory ([full] by default) for a manual section and
creates files containg an appropriate link
creates links within [full]
for everything mentioned under a .SH NAME
that doesn't already have a file.
(Two directories are used for making links in the man cache)

cachelinks does makelinks throughout the manual cache

breaklinks
removes all cache links whose names are not in the 
manual source directories.  for cleaning up trash.
A more delicate equivalent is rm `spoolref`

cache goes thru the cache of formatted pages and updates all files whose
source postdates the cached version

secindex directory-name
produces a list of all NAMES mentioned in the
directory with the file in which each occurs
output on standard output

secindexes does all the man sections,
putting the results in man0/man?.index

checkrefs
goes through all the manual pages looking for cross-references
and checks them against the names of all manual sections
troubles may be seen in files, "nonref, needblank,
badref"
other incidental files created are "ref, def, xref, misref"

checkSH
produces files /usr/man/man0.n containing all
.SH lines in the nth directory, /usr/man/man1, man2, ...
use sort -c +0 -1 +2n repeatedly to find files in which subheads are
out of order


checkfilref >badfil
looks thru all files mentioned in the manual
and puts a list of those that don't occur on the system,
with the name of the manual section in which they are mentioned,
in badfil

makind
produces ptx input
in file  permindex for troffing thus
	troff ptxmac # no further file args

makcont
produces table of contents info in file contents
for troffing with contmac
(Obsoleted by topic index)

libcontents library
produces for the named library a list of externally
define symbols; results in library basename.list

checklib
compares the section indexes for sections 2 and 3 (see secindex)
with the external symbols in various libraries
and puts a comm listing of differences in man23.comm

maketopic
produces a topic index of the manual in file topindex
it creates a directory tjunk for workspace
each manual page should have a .CT command before the .SH NAME
maketopic extracts the page name, .CT arguments and name line
the order of the index is the same as /usr/man/man0/categories
to typeset use troff topmacs

numbertopind
joins page numbers from "pagenumbers" to "topindex" and
puts result in ntopindex to typeset with troff topmacs

cktopic
checks that all manual pages contain a .CT line

spoolref >dead
reads the indexes made by secindexes and puts on "dead" a
list of obsolete files in the spool directory.
these files have no source, or broken links, or mistaken links

pagecount -f
Under option -f, typesets (discarding output) all of man[1-9]
and produces file "pagesizes" that tells number of physical
pages for each man page.
Regardless of options, it uses file "pagelist", a hand-prepared
file listing file names of all pages together with "pagesizes"
to produce "pagenumbers" that tells where pages begin.
All three files have lines of the form
	man1/cat.1 optional-size optional-pagenumber
The size from "pagesizes" takes precedence over that from "pagelist",
but pagelist may list files (such as front matter) that are missing
from pagesizes.  Lines in "pagelist" and "pagenumbers" having the form
	odd
force the next physical page to have an odd number.

preprocess man?/page.?
returns a pipeline that tells how to preprocess the given
man page for troff.  use it with "eval"

troffit [-a] man?/page.? ...
runs troff on the specified pages, getting the page number
from the file pagenumbers, and putting on stderr entries
suitable for the file pagesizes.

numberpermind
takes the file "permindex" made by "makind" plus
the file "pagenumbers" made by "pagecount" and produces
"npermindex", which has page numbers attached, suitable
for typesetting by "troff nptxmac #no further args"

cachindex
goes thru all the NAME lines and puts them in /usr/spool/man/index
for the benefit of man -k.  it should be run occasionally by cron
