.\" For Proper Output of this document
.\" TYPE:
.\" nroff READTHIS
.ul 2
.ce 2
BITE (BASIC Interpreter)
RELEASE 3/7/81 DEPT. 52425
.sp

	The tape supplied is created by the UNIX "cpio" command, and
is approximately 1180 blocks.
To load the tape, create a directory where it is desired to
place the software, mount the tape and issue:

	cpio -idB < /dev/rmt0

	where 0 is mag tape unit zero.

To compile BITE, cd into the src directory. Then run "make".
If the src directory is empty, then cd into the "sccs" directory
and run "getall" which will 
extract the source files from the "sccs" format and put them in the
adjacent directory "src". After "getall" completes, cd to src
and type "make". This will compile all the source files, archive
the resulting object files into src/libB.a,
then it will link edit using the archive to obtain the
executable file "bite". After compilation, you may choose
to delete the contents of the "src" directory and maintain only
the "sccs" versions to conserve file space.
Note that the
"Makefile" is written for the UNIX 3.0 (or later) "make" command .
.sp
.ul
GETTING STARTED
.sp
    Some sample programs are in the directory "bites". A particularly
useful example is the "annuit" program which calculates interest
payments/withdrawals and loan payments.
A demo on strings called "strings.b" is also included.
A manual page for "bite" is in
the "doc" directory and can be read by issuing the command
"nroff -man bite.1". If your system has a place for local manual pages
accessible by the "man" command, it is suggested that you place a copy
of "bite.1" in you local manual.
It is important to note that the "Bite Users Guide" memo 
does not describe all of the most recently added commands
and features. These features are, however kept up to date in the manual
page.

.nf
.ul
DOCUMENTS
	bite-user.m	USERS GUIDE (UNPL 1512)
	bite-inside.m	TOUR THROUGH BITE INTERNALS (Unpublished)
	bite.1		MAIN MANUAL PAGE
	outmemo		outputs two memos to lpr
	README		OBSOLETE (describes instrument package)

.fi
    BITE is an acronym for BASIC Interpreter for Testing and Engineering.
It was written by R. B. Drake and J. P. Hawkins with
an extended instruction set for instrument control. At least for now,
the further use of BITE for instrument control has been suspended but
command modules are in the directory "instruments".
.br
    The string capability is a recent addition (1981) to the interpreter
and was fashioned after two other dialects. Its inclusion is optional by
#define STRINGS in the header file bas.h. The string capability is not
discussed by either memoranda.
.br
    "Bite" has been successfully brought up on PDP-11/70, PDP-11/03,
PDP-11/23,
VAX-11/780 (under both UNIX 3.0 and Berkley VMUNIX 4.1)
and BELLMAC-8. The BELLMAC version was installed by R. C.
Restrick, 3rd of DEPT 2413.
We expect that it will also
work properly on the 3B30S, though we have not
had an opportunity to try that and would appreciate hearing from anyone
who does. 
.sp
Though we are not a software support organization, we will attempt to
fix bugs as time permits. If you have any problems, comments or
suggestions, please call.

.nf
	
	R. B. Drake	WH 8C005 X4163
