Jun 18, 1991:

Lower | to match parens.

Dec, 1990:

Converted to ANSI C.  Alea iacta est.

Nov 11, 1989:

Print diacriticals in font 1 regardless.

Apr 28, 1989:

Made some of the float tuning parameters accessible
through define. (Subbase & Supshift).  Not very systematic
naming or direction conventions.

Added version identification output via -d.

Apr 20, 1989:

Fixed bug that caused excess inter-character spaces
in bold xxx, etc.

Re-did sqrt to generate radical with a more accurate size.
(i hope -- tuned for postscript.)

Mar 89:

Lots of fiddling to get detailed character spacing better,
assuming times roman on postscript printers.  a digram
class table in text.c does most of it;  more fiddles in
eqnbox.c and shift.c.  Not much attempt to make this stuff
independent of typesetter, so it may break on other output
devices.

Tab is now just another white space character.  This rescinds
the original botch that made it something to be printed.

Preliminary steps taken to getting rid of neqn;  "ndefine" is
now the only vestige in the code, for compatibility.


Sept 88:

Default TYPESETTER is post.

Changed positioning rules for sqrts to be a lot
better for postscript.

Changed positioning rules for built-up brackets:
if the enclosed thing has a base that's more than
1/2 em away from its center, the thing is just
centered, rather than lined up.

More tuning parameters added.

Fixed up to go through cyntax without substantive complaint.

Apr 87:

Made some of the tuning parameters visible as
defined strings:
	hat_def:	string to draw the hat in x hat
	also	vec, tilde, dot, dotdot, utilde
		sum, prod, inter, union, int

moved a bunch of fixed values out into tuning.c
as compile-time parameters.

Dec 85:

The following is a quick synopsis of changes
to eqn since the last version.
Most of these changes owe thanks to Mary Carter,
whose efforts during the summer of 1984 provided
the impetus to start thinking about eqn again.

1.  Fixed long-standing bug involving nested
from-to constructs.

2.  Output guaranteed to preserve font that was
in effect upon entry (if there are no font changes
within quoted strings).

3.  The right delimiter is no longer significant
within display equations.

4.  Macros with arguments, as in grap and pic.
Parentheses are treated somewhat differently:
If an embedded left paren is found in a token,
then the characters to its left are checked to
see if they are a macro name.  If they are, the
paren is assumed to mark the beginning of the 
argument list.  Otherwise, the token is treated
just like any other.

5.  File inclusion:  include (or copy) "filename"
is replaced by contents of file.  .EQ and .EN are
ignored within inclusions.  Filename "-" is a synonym for
standard input on the command line.

6.  Font names can be given as strings, as in
	font CW { ... } or gfont CW

7.  Checks environment variable TYPESETTER;  default
is still 202.

8.  An optional separation distance can be specified
for a pile or col:  lcol 33 {... above ...} adds 33/100 em
of separation between the elements instead of the default;
negative values permitted.
pile, etc., have become synonyms for col, etc.

9.  Eqn attempts to print appropriately for current size,
obviating the need for most uses of size {...} and gsize.
It won't always be right, but it will be close for documents
printed in the usual range of sizes.

10. A fair amount of fiddling has been done to details of
positioning;  the output seems to be better looking.

11. ifdef whatever / is replaced by this if defined /
The proper TYPESETTER name is defined already.

12. Error messages are somewhat better as well.  Errors
passed on to troff will be identified by source file and
line number in the eqn input.

13. Tunable parameters have been (mostly) collected into
a single file, tuning.c, to make it easier to adapt eqn
to a new typesetter.

14. As an interim fix, "lowbar" and "highbar" are synonymous
with "bar", but force the bar to be either low (as over x)
or high (as over X) regardless of the apparent height of
the object.  This copes with {x sub 1} bar.
